[Music]
today's lesson with friends Phoebe meets
Mike's parents now have you ever had to
meet a girlfriend or boyfriend's parents
well you don't want to make the same
mistakes that Phoebe does here plus if
you stick around to the end we have a
special pronunciation lesson for you
that you're not gonna want to miss
finally if you're new here every single
week we helped learners like you
understand fast speaking natives without
getting lost without missing the jokes
and without subtitles
take for example fruit on who says that
now we can understand some of his
favorite movies and you can improve your
comprehension of your favorite series of
moves - all you have to do is hit that
subscribe button and the bell down below
so you don't miss any of our new lessons
[Music]
baby these are our friends Tom and Sue
Engel come sit that's a little bit about
yourself so where are you from okay well
alright originally I'm from upstate but
then my mom killed herself and my
stepdad went to prison so I actually
lived in a burned out Buick LeSabre for
a while which was okay that was okay
until I got hepatitis you know pimp spit
in my mouth and I got over it and anyway
now I'm a freelance massage therapist
which you know isn't always steady money
but at least I don't pay taxes this is
not going well
what are you doing fine really once you
go talk to my dad okay okay okay
still sure about me being myself
absolutely yeah there may be just a
little less pimp spit so theodore i am i
can see where Mike gets his good looks
from
oh yeah and that physique you must work
out all the time no no not all the time
I I do the best I can
okay I recently had surgery I'm so sorry
I'll be fine I just should check the
stitches you know why wouldn't you punch
me in the stomach feel like I'm
tell us a little bit about yourself
so where are you from okay well alright
originally I'm from upstate you probably
noticed how anxious Phoebe seems to be
in this conversation something that a
lot of natives often do when they're
nervous is make constant use of filler
words discourse markers okay
originally I'm from upstate I'm a
freelance massage therapist which you
know isn't always steady money words and
expressions such as well you know okay
and alright are commonly used in English
with the intention of filling a moment
of silence or giving yourself more time
to think and continue with the rest of
this sentence these are what we call
discourse markers they also appear in
the form of sounds such as uh or um then
my mom killed herself and my stepdad
went to prison so although these words
and sounds may seem unnecessary we use
them to connect organize and manage what
we say they can help us express subtle
details and show the listener how to
interpret what the speaker is saying
discourse markers probably exist in your
language too let's check out some more
examples with the TV series friends you
know when like important decisions have
to be made well if you don't know I
can't help you well I don't know well I
can't help you
Phoebe and I are moving in together I
know it's so exciting you know I've
never lived with a guy before because
she exchanges every gift she ever gets
it's like impossible to get her
something she likes so which of these do
you think is not a discourse marker okay
well alright originally I'm from upstate
upstate refers to the area or part in
the north of a state in the US that are
far from cities where a lot of people
live this word is more traditionally
used to refer to upstate New York which
covers all of the area of the state of
New York that is north of New York City
so Phoebe explains that she is
originally from upstate if you say that
you are originally from somewhere that
means you were born there and not just
grew up there example I'm originally
from Colorado but now I live in
Barcelona as well later here Phoebe say
she actually grew up in New York City so
specifying that she is originally from
upstate clarifies what part of New York
she's from we from stores Connecticut
originally then my mom killed herself
and my stepdad went to prison so a
person's stepfather or stepped out as
Phoebe said is the man who has married
their mother after the divorce or death
of their father
to the city I actually lived in a burned
out Buick LeSabre for a while
Phoebe says that when she moved to New
York City she lived in a burned out
Buick LeSabre car a burned-out object
usually a car or house has been
destroyed or badly damaged by fire and
while as a moment or a period of time so
to say that you did something for a
while is the same as to say that you did
it for a long time honey
relationships are hard like with your
mom and me you know after we graduated
from college we broke up for a while
which was okay that was okay until I got
hepatitis you know pimp spit in my mouth
and hepatitis is a serious liver disease
the liver is a large organ in the body
that filters and cleans the blood a pimp
is a man who manages prostitutes and
arranges clients for them taking part of
their earnings in return spit is saliva
the watery liquid produced in your mouth
usually referred to as a verb or noun
when it has been forced out of someone's
mouth
[Music]
pimp spit in my mouth and I got over it
to get over is a phrasal verb with a few
different meanings and applications in
this case BB meant that she recovered
and got cured from her hepatitis she got
over it however you can also commonly
hear this expression being used meaning
to accept an unpleasant fact or
situation after dealing with it for a
while Julie you know what maybe it's
gonna be okay I mean it's been a week
ice never taken me more than a week to
get over a relationship it's never
taking you more than a shower to get
over a relationship so which of these
would be an incorrect use of get over
[Music]
I got over it and anyway now I'm a
freelance massage therapist the
expression anyway
as seen here can be used to change the
subject of a conversation or to resume a
subject after interruption well Ross was
hanging out over at our place Rachel
comes over to borrow some moisturizer
from Chandler something Rachel came over
to borrow something anyway her and Ross
just started yelling at each other hey
so I have a question for you do you want
to master American pronunciation and
connect a speech without getting bored
well you'll find no better way than with
our fluent with friends course in this
48 course you will learn alongside the
first two seasons of friends and you get
20 plus page PDF power lessons
vocabulary memorization software access
to our floozie circle global community
and so much more and the best part is
you can try for free right now with our
three part master class you just have to
click up here or down ascription below
and you can sign up for that right now
anyway now I'm a freelance massage
therapist freelance is a type of work
where you do particular pieces of work
for different organizations rather than
working all the time for a single
organization for example freelance
photographers sell their photos to
different newspapers Phoebe is saying
that she works as a massage therapist
and that she does it for multiple
different clients and not just in a
single clinic or spa for example which
you know isn't always steady money but
it at least I don't pay taxes the
adjective study describes something that
is firmly fixed in position for example
if you have to climb upon your roof you
definitely want to have a steady ladder
steady money refers to a fixed income
that is when you can expect the same or
similar amount of money being received
on a regular basis for the work you do
so she says that at least she doesn't
pay taxes since it's easier to avoid
paying income taxes if you do freelance
work in which you receive cash as some
people decide to do obviously not paying
taxes would not be
they're very ethical this is not going
well I don't need you doing fine really
once you go talk to my dad okay okay
okay
still sure about me being myself
absolutely being yourself means being
authentic and acting naturally not
pretending you are more than you are or
that you are different so as to impress
people earlier in this episode Phoebe
had introduced herself to Mike's parents
while speaking in an unnatural formal
tone and accent mom dad this is Phoebe
Phoebe
he's my parents Theodore and bitsy
Theodore fitzy it's so nice to finally
meet you and you your home is lovely
what are you doing I'm trying to get
your parents to like me yeah I'm sure
they will but you know you don't have to
do this I want them to get to know
Phoebe not hey Barry so Phoebe is now
asking Mike if he still wants her to
just be herself since doing that and
acting naturally is actually making a
bad impression on his parents why'd you
go talk to my dad
okay okay okay still sure about me being
myself absolutely yeah
there may be just a little less pimp
spit
so theodore i am i can see where Mike
gets his good looks from
oh here Phoebe is making the observation
that the reason why Mike is beautiful is
because he looks like his father Mike
gets his good looks from his father we
might also say that one takes after
their father or mother example I got my
nose for my father I take after my
father i am i can see where Mike gets
his good looks from oh and that physique
you must work out all the time
physique refers to the form and size of
a person's body work out is a phrasal
verb meaning to exercise especially with
weights so Phoebe says that Mike's
father must work out all the time
although must is a special verb normally
used referring to the obligation or
importance of something being done it
actually has a different meaning in the
line spoken by Phoebe must here is used
to show that something is very likely
probable or certain to be true sorry
your soap actor must be pretty exciting
for you being in a real play hmm
hey I've done plays before I'm a serious
actor and that physique you must work
out all the time no not all the time I
do the best I can literally Tibet is to
risk money or an object on the result of
an event or competition such as a horse
race or poker in the hope of winning
more money I bet is a slang expression
used for replying to a statement to show
that you agree with it or that you
expect it to be true you know I bet you
and I have more in common than we think
and that physique you must work out all
the time oh no no not all the time I do
the best I can look out or watch out is
an expression used for warning someone
to be careful especially because they
are likely to have an accident
[Music]
would you almost crushed my hat
Wow thanks Lily you saved me I recently
had surgery I'll be fine I just should
check the stitches you know why wouldn't
you punch me in the stomach a stitch is
a piece of thread pulled through a
fabric and into a loop like seeing in
the picture it's normal to get stitches
on the skin after surgery is to join the
edges of a deep cut and recover the skin
to punch is to strike somebody or
something with your fist like this Hey
if you love Phoebe then you'll
definitely want to check out this
playlist featuring all of our Phoebe
lessons after you finish this video with
this one mine you can learn a lot about
connected speech and pronunciation in
English first you'll notice Mike's
mother connects the words tell and us
together resulting in one simple sound
tell us this happens because the word
tell ends in an L sound and us starts
with a vowel sound also known she
connects us and a to form the sound
ASSA tell us a little bit tell us a
little bit let's listen to it again
closely another interesting and very
common sound in this sentence is the tap
T heard in the words bit about bit about
in American English when we have a T
sound between two vowels it becomes a
tap T sound which sounds the same as a D
sound in the word buddy for example we
could hear the tap T sound in the words
water and dating and because of
connected speech this can also happen if
a word ends in a T sound and the
following word begins with a vowel sound
example your hat is pretty cool
what about us finally did you notice how
she made H sound between the words about
yourself about yourself in combinations
of words such as about you about you
where one ends in the letter T and the
next starts with a why it's normal to
replace that T and Y with a kiss and
while connecting the two words together
let's check out more examples of what
we've learned so far in connected speech
and pronunciation you remember when you
first came here how you spent two weeks
getting trained by another waitress
[Music]
putting you down for five boxes I'm
putting you down for five boxes
Chandler what about you Chandler what
about you well then how come you're
still on a job that you hate well then
how come you're still on a job that you
hate
give me why don't you quit and get the
fear in me why don't you quit didn't get
the fear my old man's doing a plumbing
job down there and you heard they have
an opening and you're they have an
opening so you want me to see if you can
get you an interview you want me to see
if you can get you an interview not a
problem
no don't ring the buzzer for 19 ring 20
Geller green they'll let you in battle
let you in here she simply dropped the R
which is a very common thing to do in
spoken English in collocations such as
where are you and what are you becoming
where you and what you this is another
interesting example of connected speech
check out how Phoebe says the words
burned out I actually lived in a burned
out Buick LeSabre I tasted Jen's milk
and Ross freaked out I tasted milk and
Ross freak yeah
which was okay that was okay until I got
hepatitis you know
pimp spit in my mouth and I got over it
aside from view pronouncing God over it
which is another example of the type T
sound we just learned note that the word
because gets reduced to cuz pimp spit in
my mouth I'm sure she just she just said
that stuff because she was nervous cuz
you guys have like my best friends she
was nervous cuz you guys like my best
friends this is not going well I don't
think you're doing fine really
once you go talk to my dad in this line
we can clearly hear Mike making the use
of the cheese sound in replacing the T
followed by a Y in different words plus
he reduces the word don't - just a
simple unstressed unsound in the
collocation why don't you once you go
talk to my dad why don't you go talk to
my dad this is a very simple type of
reduction but that is very common in
informal spoken English ah me too
yeah make that three okay Ross why don't
you come with me okay Ross fine come
with me
[Music]
okay okay okay still sure about me being
myself absolutely did you hear how Mike
pronounce it this word let's try and
practice it with him okay okay okay
still sure about me being myself
absolutely absolutely i am i can see
where Mike gets his good looks from oh
yeah
and that physique you must work out all
the time you must work at all the time
[Music]
no not all the time no not all the time
I do the best I can
[Music]
I've recently had surgery I'm so sorry
I'll be fine I just should check the
stitches this is a good example of how
you should pronounce most plural nouns
in English that end with the letters es
it is incorrect to say stitch instead
you should pronounce a clear is sound at
the end of the word stitches other
examples for plural nouns like this are
box boxes match matches
glass glasses
you know why wouldn't you punch me in
the stomach similarly to how we do H
sound in the words wouldn't you wouldn't
you we can also replace ad followed by a
y in different words with the sound of
the letter J could you could you so how
could you know why wouldn't you punch me
in the stomach
[Music]
if your cable go out is your cable girls
no no that's bh1
how did you lose your job here how did
you lose your job here
[Music]
baby these are our friends Tom and Sue
angle hello come sit okay I'm us a
little bit about yourself
so where are you from um okay well
alright originally I'm from upstate but
then my mom killed herself and my
stepdad went to prison so just moved to
the city I actually lived in a burned
out Buick LeSabre
for a while which was okay that was okay
until I got hepatitis you know pimp spit
in my mouth and I got over it and anyway
now I'm a freelance massage therapist
which you know isn't always steady money
but at least I don't pay taxes
this is not going well I don't need you
doing fine really
once you go talk to my dad
okay okay okay still sure about me being
myself absolutely yeah there maybe just
a little less pimp spit so theodore i am
i can see where Mike gets his good looks
from
oh yeah and that physique you must work
out all the time no not all the time I I
do the best I can
I recently had surgery I'm so sorry
I'll be fine I just should check the
stitches I really am so how could you
know why wouldn't you punch me in the
stomach all right I hope you had a lot
of fun that you laughed a lot you
understood all the jokes and if you're
ready to take your english to the next
level well then you'll definitely want
to get that masterclass a try you can
sign up for that free by clicking the
button below or in the description and
now it's time to go beyond the classroom
and live your English oh yeah
[Music]